Hi, this is Arisa from Bernesigo. It's been
raining in Vancouver for a while, but
today the weather is really nice. I
feel great this morning. I often get asked questions like, "I want to do yoga,
but I don't know which video to start with."
My yoga videos are
mostly for beginners, but I
realized I haven't actually done a beginner-friendly yoga video, so today I'd like to
do a 15-minute yoga session for beginners.
I think the most important thing in yoga is
movement. At first, just
staying in any pose is quite
difficult and uses a lot of muscles, so let's do something like Downward Dog.
I love Downward Dog, but there's nothing special about it, so let's just
move our bodies a little and notice things like, "Oh, this is how it feels here." I
think that's the most important thing.
Having a connection with your body. Keep that in
mind today and try to
find a place that feels good for you. But even if you just want to try yoga or
have a little interest in it, you've already achieved half the goal. So, just do
it! Let's lay out our
mats and get started.
Sit with both feet on the mat, with your feet directly under the cushion, and
place a little of your buttocks on the mat so that your sit
bones are touching the mat. Move to the left and try to
find the center of your body axis.
If you have a blanket or block,
place it under your buttocks to raise yourself a little higher and
sit higher towards the sky.
Similarly, move a little of your buttocks and sit on your sit bones. Bring your
shoulders close to your ears once, then drop them down. Bring them
closer twice more on an inhale and drop them down on an exhale, then do it once more. Rotate your
shoulders a few times. You can place your palms up
or down on your knees. Your
body is different every day, so try to
find a hand position that suits your body today. Now,
take one deep breath and
exhale with a sound through your mouth. In the
next few breaths, stretch upwards towards the sky as if being pulled from the top of your head, and on an
exhale, without changing the position of your head,
drop only your pelvis towards the mat.  To
create space between each part of your body, slightly
pull your ribs forward, making
sure your chest is directly above your pelvis and your head is above your chest, so that your body is in a straight line. Sit in a relaxed posture,
not with your spine tensed, as if you are leaning against a wall. In
yoga, in any pose, you build your body up from the ground. The
part of your body touching the mat should feel like it is rooting, and from there, gently stretch upwards. Take a
smooth breath, inhale through your
nose, exhale, inhale again, and as you exhale,
lower only your pelvis, bring your
hands together in front of your chest, and touch your chest like a shrimp.
Gently press your thumbs upwards with your chest. As you
exhale, bring your head closer to your chest and bow.
Slowly return your face to its original position,
release your hands, and after a few breaths, raise both hands above your head,
clasp your hands together, and turn your palms towards the ceiling.
Slightly
bend your elbows to create space between your ears and shoulders so that your shoulders do not get too close to your ears, and while
maintaining that space, push only your palms towards the sky.  And raise it up,
continue breathing easily, inhale and exhale in the
same way, lowering only your pelvis, and on the
next exhale, move your hands away and push forward in front of your chest, and
at the same time
pull your back back, and return your body with your hands up, and on the
exhale, push your palms forward and at the same time pull your back back,
creating a space between your chest and hands, inhale and exhale, push
forward and raise your palms up, with your right hand down and your
left hand up and lean to the right, press your
left pelvis firmly against the mat and from
there press your palms down and stretch the left side of your body, like this, moving forward like this,
creating space so you don't fall,
move your body in a way that feels good to you, you
can move in small increments, and
return to the starting position, this time with your left hand on the floor, inhale and your right hand up and lean to the left,
again like this so you don't fall forward,
press your right pelvis firmly against the mat and
lift your chest towards the sky, with your right hand on your head
Stretch the upper right side,
creating space. Return to the starting position, then place your hands behind your hips and
lift your chest towards the sky. If you
want to, lift your hips and
lift only your chest upwards. Return to the starting position, then place your hands in front of you and
lean forward from your waist. Again, make sure your pelvis doesn't lift off the
mat.
If you have a block or blanket, sit on it to raise your
height slightly and lean forward.
Return to the starting position, then
place your knees and hands on the mat to get into position 4.
Place your forearms on the mat.
Spread your hands wide, about the width of your forearms, and press your entire hands,
especially your thumbs and index fingers, firmly against the mat.
While pressing your hands and forearms against the mat,
move your body slightly.
Now we will do a pose that is an alternative to downward dog. Press firmly with your
forearms and hands against the mat, then bring your
chest closer to the mat.
At the same time, lift your hips towards the sky and breathe
deeply into your back. Inhale deeply and exhale,
lowering your chest towards the mat.
At the same time, push your hips towards the sky.
Slowly raise your body into a yoga
squat. Spread your feet wider than the width of the mat and point your
toes outwards. Sit down, or if you feel like you're floating, use a
blanket or something to raise yourself.
Press your elbows together on the inside of your knees, and use that force to lift your chest slightly.
This is the toilet pose, so it's about elimination. Imagine you're
expelling everything you no longer need. Inhale and exhale,
releasing all unwanted emotions and thoughts.
Release your hands, keeping your fingers together. Bring
both feet close together, about two fist-widths apart, with your
feet parallel and your knees bent as much as you can. Grasp your
elbows together and relax your upper body, letting it hang loosely
with gravity. Swing from
side to side,
releasing the tension. Relax the back of your neck as well. Take a
deep breath in and out. Press your legs together and stand up, lifting each vertebra of your
spine one by one.  Here we go, keeping your
chin curled up,
lift your head last, curl it up,
lift your head last, and
release your hands to your sides on an exhale,
walk towards the front of the mat, with your feet parallel, about
two fist-widths apart as before,
slightly bend your knees and move from side to side,
gripping the mat with your whole body, bring your palms together in front of your chest, like you did at
the beginning, place your thumbs on your chest and
gently push up with your chest, keep your feet firmly on the
mat and
lift your body from your stomach towards the sky, keeping your spine
relaxed and not tensed, inhale and exhale, bringing your palms to your sides,
bend your legs and bounce with your hands up, bring your hands to your chest again on an exhale, gently bounce with your knees light and palms up, bring your
hands up
in front of your body on an exhale, bring your hands up on an inhale and bring them up on an exhale, bring your hands up on an exhale, bring your hands up on an inhale and bring them up on an exhale,
bring your hands up on your hips and lean your
body forward, pushing your hips back from your hips  You can
bend your knees as much as you want.
Inhale and stand up, your hands on your thighs are
fine, and your back should be slightly straight.
Exhale and fold your body tightly, taking a
big step back with your right foot. With your left
knee bent, move it a little back and forth and side to side.
Movement is important.
High
lunge. Move in a way that feels good to you and
loosen your hip joints.
Put your back knee on the mat, straighten your front knee, and push your hips back to stretch the back
of your left thigh.
Move your body in a way that feels good to you. Movement is important. Your
ankles should be directly below your knees, and your pelvis should
n't sag.
Pull your left pelvis back and your right pelvis forward, and you'll feel your
abdominal muscles working. Yes, yes, yes.
From there, feel your abdominal muscles and raise your
hands up. It's important that your feet are firmly planted on the ground. Keep your feet
firmly planted and extend them lightly upwards.
First, inhale and exhale,
place your hands on the mat, position your right foot so that it is behind your knee,
and your left foot parallel to the shorter side of the mat, so that your
knee and hands are in a straight line, and
pull firmly from the little toe side of your foot, extending your left hand above your head. At
this time,
press firmly against the ground with your right hand, keeping your
hands and head relaxed, letting your left hand hang loosely, feeling the
weight of your head and hand open up the side of your body, and
continue breathing comfortably. Inhale and exhale,
return your body to the starting position, lift your back knee, bring your right foot
next to your left foot, and
half-stand up in a few breaths, then exhale and
fold firmly, this time pushing your left foot back into a high lunge,
and again in the
same way,
moving back and forth to loosen your hip joints, this time being
slightly conscious of the back of your right pelvis and the front of your left pelvis.
Place your back knee on the mat, straighten your front knee, and
push your hips back firmly.
Now, let's loosen the back of your right knee and thigh.
Move back and forth, and keep
breathing. Make sure your
ankle is directly below your knee, and just like before,
bring your right hip back and your left hip forward. Press firmly,
feeling the tension in your stomach, pelvis, and deep within your abdomen. Lightly
extend your hands towards the sky. Keeping your
feet in contact with the floor is very important. Make sure you have a solid
base before extending upwards. Once you bring your hands back, now place your left foot behind your knee and your right foot parallel to the short edge of the mat. Press your left hand firmly into the mat, and your hands and
feet form a strong base. Sorry, but press firmly into the mat starting from your right ankle and little toe, and bring your right hand above your head. You'll probably feel that the volume on your right and left sides are different. I always find my right side a little
tighter, but just be aware of that.
Now, let your head and hands relax completely, and use your
weight to open up the volume on your right side. Are you still
breathing? Inhale and exhale.
Slowly return your body to the starting position,
bring your left foot to the right side, open your legs again, and
squat. Take a deep breath and
exhale completely.
Now, let's use a little bit of this.
Tighten both legs as if zipping them up, place your hands
behind your thighs, rotate your shoulders a few times, open the front of your chest and collarbone. Gradually lean back
like a seesaw, lift your
legs up and hug them tightly to the center, don't forget to keep breathing in and out
to the music.
Now, 3, 2, 1, slowly return your body to the starting position, lean forward just a little, and then do the same pose again.
Peel your legs tightly to the center and lean
back, balancing your body and legs like a shiso leaf.
Open the front of your chest, slowly return your legs to your body, align the
soles of your feet, bend both knees outwards, and place your
palms at your sides. At this time, keep your shoulders and ears together.  To
create some space, bring your hands in front of your body and
slowly move them to your sides, as if pushing your shoulder blades together.
Create enough space under your armpits for about a golf ball, and
create space in front of your collarbones and chest. Inhale, and as you exhale,
slowly sink your body into the mat. Inhale
into your stomach and
exhale,
focusing your awareness on your stomach for a moment as you
continue breathing. You will feel your stomach rise with the help of water, and as you exhale, your
stomach will sink back into the mat. If you can, you can
stay in this pose for about 5 minutes. If your
hips are a little sore,
straighten your legs and you will be in the final resting pose,
Savasena. Make
sure to stay in this pose for 23 minutes. I
always say this, but this Savasena
pose is the most important. Yoga is a practice that allows you to
quickly return to this calm state of mind even in your daily life. Thank you for doing
yoga with me today.
Thank you very much. If you liked the video,
please hit the like button. I would be really
happy if you could share it with others and tell them, "Hey, there's a video like this!" See you in the next yoga video, bye-bye!